DOCS-5876 Adds CD Visibility + ArgoCD Documentation (#20798)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_delivery/deployments/argocd.md

---
title: Monitor ArgoCD Deployments
kind: documentation
description: Learn how to monitor deployments from ArgoCD in Datadog Deployment Visibility.
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/continuous_delivery/deployments"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Deployment Visibility"
- link: "/continuous_delivery/explorer"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to query and visualize deployment executions"
---

> {{< callout url="http://dtdg.co/to-be-updated" header="false" >}}
> CD Visibility for ArgoCD is in private beta. To request access, complete the form (link to be inserted).

Author: Reminder to update this with a Google Form link!

```suggestion
{{< callout url="http://dtdg.co/to-be-updated" header="false" >}}
CD Visibility for ArgoCD is in private beta. To request access, complete the form (link to be inserted).
```

Author: @jessewgibbs reminder to update this URL!

{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

> [Argo CD][1] is a declarative, GitOps continuous delivery tool for Kubernetes. It follows the GitOps pattern, using Git
> repositories to define the desired application state, and it automates the deployment of applications in the specified target environments.

Author: ```suggestion
[Argo CD][1] is a declarative GitOps continuous delivery (CD) tool for Kubernetes. It follows the GitOps pattern by using Git repositories to define the desired application state, and automates the deployment of applications in specified target environments.
```

> The integration between Argo CD and Datadog CD Visibility is provided through [Argo CD Notifications][2]. In short, Argo CD notifications
> consists of two main things:
> 1. [Triggers][3]: they define **when** to send a notification.
> 2. [Templates][4]: they define **what** to send in a notification.

Author: ```suggestion
Datadog CD Visibility integrates with Argo CD by using [Argo CD Notifications][2]. 

Argo CD notifications consists of two components:

1. [Triggers][3], which define _when_ to send a notification.
2. [Templates][4], which define _what_ to send in a notification.
```

Reviewer: LGTM, I have just added "main" before components because it actually consists of other components, but those are the two main ones

> ## Configure the Datadog Integration

Author: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

> For a more general guide on how to set up Argo CD notifications using webhooks, see the [Argo CD guide][5].

Author: ```suggestion
For a more general guide on how to set up Argo CD notifications using webhooks, see the [official Argo CD guide][5].
```

The first thing to create is the service, containing the Datadog intake URL and the API Key. First, add your API Key in the

> `argocd-notifications-secret` secret with the `dd-api-key` key. See [this guide][2] for information on modifying the `argocd-notifications-secret`.

Author: ```suggestion
`argocd-notifications-secret` secret with the `dd-api-key` key. See [the Argo CD guide][2] for information on modifying the `argocd-notifications-secret`.
```

> Then, create a new service in the `argocd-notifications-cm` config map with the following format:

Author: ```suggestion
Then, create a service in the `argocd-notifications-cm` config map with the following format:
```

              "recipient": {{toJson .recipient}},
              "commit_metadata": {{toJson (call .repo.GetCommitMetadata .app.status.operationState.syncResult.revision)}}
            }
```

<div class="alert alert-warning">
The call to populate the <code>commit_metadata</code> field is not required, and it's used to enrich the payload with Git information.
In case you are using Helm repositories as the source of your Argo CD application, adjust the body by removing that line.
</div>

`cd-visibility-template` is the name of the template, and `cd-visibility-webhook` is a reference to the service created above.

The third step is to create the trigger, again in the same `argocd-notifications-cm` config map:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: argocd-notifications-cm
data:
  trigger.cd-visibility-trigger: |
    - when: app.status.operationState.phase in ['Succeeded', 'Failed', 'Error', 'Running'] and app.status.health.status in ['Healthy', 'Degraded']
      send: [cd-visibility-template]
```

`cd-visibility-trigger` is the name of the trigger, and `cd-visibility-template` is a reference to the template created above.

> After the service, trigger and template have been created, you can subscribe any of your Argo CD application to the integration.
> This is done via modifying the annotations of the application, either via the Argo CD UI or via modifying the application definition:

Author: ```suggestion
After the service, trigger, and template have been created, you can subscribe any of your Argo CD application to the integration. 

Modify the annotations of the application by either using the Argo CD UI or modifying the application definition with the following:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  annotations:
    notifications.argoproj.io/subscribe.cd-visibility-trigger.cd-visibility-webhook: ""
    dd_env: <YOUR_ENV>
```

There are two annotations:
1. The notifications annotation subscribes the application to the notification setup created above.
2. The `dd_env` annotation configures the environment of the application. Replace `YOUR_ENV` above with the environment

>    to which this application is deploying (for example: `staging`, `prod`). If you don't set this annotation,

Author: ```suggestion
   to which this application is deploying (for example: `staging` or `prod`). If you don't set this annotation,
```

>    the environment will be defaulted to `none`.

Author: ```suggestion
   the environment defaults to `none`.
```

> Once this final step is completed, the integration is done, and you can monitor your Argo CD deployments in Datadog.

Author: ```suggestion
Once this final step is completed, you can start monitoring your Argo CD deployments in Datadog.
```

## Visualize deployments in Datadog

> The [Deployments][6] and [Deployment Executions][7] pages populate with data after a deployment is executed.

Author: ```suggestion
The [**Deployments**][6] and [**Deployment Executions** pages][7] pages populate with data after a deployment is executed. For more information, see [Search and Manage][9] and [CD Visibility Explorer][10].
```

## Troubleshooting

> In case the notifications are not sent, a good starting point are the logs of the `argocd-notification-controller` pod.
> The controller logs when it's sending a notification (`Sending notification ...`) and when it fails to notify a recipient
> (`Failed to notify recipient ...`). For additional troubleshooting scenarios, see the [Argo CD docs][8].

Author: ```suggestion
In case the notifications are not sent, examine the logs of the `argocd-notification-controller` pod. The controller logs when it is sending a notification (for example: `Sending notification ...`) and when it fails to notify a recipient
(for example: `Failed to notify recipient ...`). For additional troubleshooting scenarios, see the [official Argo CD documentation][8].
```

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
[2]: https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/notifications/
[3]: https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/notifications/triggers/
[4]: https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/notifications/templates/
[5]: https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/notifications/services/webhook/
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/deployments
[7]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/deployments/executions

> [8]: https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/notifications/troubleshooting/

Author: ```suggestion
[8]: https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/notifications/troubleshooting/
[9]: /continuous_delivery/search
[10]: /continuous_delivery/explorer
```

---
title: Monitor Argo CD Deployments
kind: documentation
description: Learn how to monitor deployments from Argo CD in Datadog Deployment Visibility.
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/continuous_delivery/deployments"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Deployment Visibility"
- link: "/continuous_delivery/explorer"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to query and visualize deployment executions"
---

> {{< callout url="http://dtdg.co/to-be-updated" header="false" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< callout url="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScNhFEUOndGHwBennvUp6-XoA9luTc27XBwtSgXhycBVFM9yA/viewform?usp=sf_link" header="false" >}}
```
